id="main">
 Alchemist | Antipaladin | Arcanist | Barbarian | Barbarian (Unchained) | Bard | Bloodrager | Brawler | Cavalier | Cleric | Druid | Fighter | Gunslinger | Hunter | Inquisitor | Investigator | Kineticist | Magus | Medium | Mesmerist | Monk | Monk (Unchained) | Ninja | Occultist | Oracle | Paladin | Psychic | Ranger | Rogue | Rogue (Unchained) | Samurai | Shaman | Shifter | Skald | Slayer | Sorcerer | Spiritualist | Summoner | Summoner (Unchained) | Swashbuckler | Vigilante | Warpriest | Witch | WizardCompanion | Drake | Eidolon | Eidolon (Unchained) | Familiar | PhantomAdept | Aristocrat | Commoner | Expert | Warrior
 Cleric Class Details | Domains | Variant Channeling | Archetypes
 Nobility
Source PRPG Core Rulebook pg. 46
Deities: Abadar, Arazni, Chinostes (Evil Aspect), Chinostes (Good Aspect), Count Ranalc, Dispater, Erecura, Eritrice, Folgrit, General Susumu, Horus, Inma, Jacarkas, Kols, Lanishra, Lissala, Lissala (pre-Earthfall), Losarkur, Myr, Naderi, Nalinivati, Nameless, Olheon, Omrataji, Ragathiel, Ruapceras, Seramaydiel, Shamira, Shax, Sicva, Smiad, Sugroz, Thamir Gixx, The Lost Prince, Trudd, Vale, Ydersius, Zaebos
Granted Powers: You are a great leader, an inspiration to all who follow the teachings of your faith.
Inspiring Word (Sp): As a standard action, you can speak an inspiring word to a creature within 30 feet. That creature receives a +2 morale bonus on attack rolls, skill checks, ability checks, and saving throws for a number of rounds equal to 1/2 your cleric level (minimum 1). You can use this power a number of times per day equal to 3 + your Wisdom modifier.
Leadership (Ex): At 8th level, you receive Leadership as a bonus feat. In addition, you gain a +2 bonus on your leadership score as long as you uphold the tenets of your deity (or divine concept if you do not venerate a deity).
Domain Spells: 1st—divine favor, 2nd—enthrall, 3rd—magic vestment, 4th—discern lies, 5th—greater command, 6th—geas/quest, 7th—repulsion, 8th—demand, 9th—storm of vengeance.
 Aristocracy Subdomain
Source Champions of Balance pg. 16
Associated Domain(s): Nobility
Associated Deities: Abadar, Nalinivati
Replacement Power: The following granted power replaces the inspiring word ability of the Nobility domain.
 Noble Visage (Su): You gain a +1 bonus on Charisma checks and Charisma-based skill checks against creatures that share your creature type (and subtype, if you are a humanoid). This bonus increases by 1 for every 5 levels you possess.
 As a standard action, you can touch an ally to grant her your noble visage bonus against creatures that share her creature type (or subtype) for 1 minute. When you use this ability, you lose your noble visage bonus for 1 minute. You can use this ability a number of times per day equal to 3 + your Wisdom modifier.
Replacement Domain Spells: 3rd—enter imageAPG, 9th—overwhelming presenceUM.
 Hubris Subdomain
Source Divine Anthology pg. 23
This subdomain requires the Acolyte of Apocrypha trait to access.
Associated Domain(s): Glory, Nobility
Associated Deities: Dispater, General Susumu, Iomedae, Jaidz, Lissala, Olheon, Ydersius
Replacement Power: You gain Intimidate as a class skill; this replaces the Glory domain’s increased save DC to resist channel positive energy. The following granted power replaces the divine presence power of the Glory domain or the leadership power of the Nobility domain.
 Divine Demand (Su): At 6th level, you can petition your divine patron for far greater power than you deserve. Activating this ability is a swift action that you must use as you cast a spell that has a reduced (but not negated) effect on a successful save. The saving throw DC of the spell increases by 2, and you gain a +2 bonus on caster level checks to overcome spell resistance with the spell. Any creature that succeeds at the saving throw instead avoids the effect entirely. If half or more of the targets are unaffected, you become shaken for a number of rounds equal to the spell’s level. If all of the targets are unaffected, you instead lose the ability to cast divine spells, channel energy, and use domain powers for 1d4+1 rounds; you can end this loss as a full-round action by loudly apologizing to your patron deity as a full-round action that provokes attacks of opportunity. You can use this ability once per day at 6th level, and one additional time per day for every 4 levels beyond 6th.
Replacement Domain Spells: 4th—hollow heroismUI, 7th—greater hollow heroismUI, 9th—overwhelming presenceUM. If you are evil, replace the domain spells bless weapon and holy aura with aid and unholy aura respectively.
 Leadership Subdomain
Source Advanced Player's Guide pg. 1
Associated Domain(s): Nobility
Associated Deities: Abadar, Arazni, Dispater, Erecura, Eritrice, General Susumu, Horus, Inma, Jacarkas, Kols, Lissala, Lissala (pre-Earthfall), Myr, Nalinivati, Olheon, Omrataji, Ra, Ruapceras, Seramaydiel, Shamira, Shax, Sicva, Sugroz, Thamir Gixx, Ydersius, Zaebos
Replacement Power: The following granted power replaces the inspiring word power of the Nobility domain.
 Inspiring Command (Su): As a standard action, you can issue an inspiring command to your allies. The inspiring command affects one ally plus one additional ally for every three cleric levels you possess, who must all be within 30 feet of you. Affected allies gain a +2 insight bonus on attack rolls, AC, combat maneuver defense, and skill checks for 1 round. This is a language-dependant mind-affecting effect.
Replacement Domain Spells: 1st—bless, 3rd—prayer, 6th—brilliant inspiration.
 Martyr Subdomain
Source Advanced Player's Guide pg. 1
Associated Domain(s): Nobility
Associated Deities: Abadar, Chinostes (Evil Aspect), Chinostes (Good Aspect), Count Ranalc, Folgrit, Naderi, Olheon, Ragathiel, Shax, Smiad, Sugroz, The Lost Prince, Trudd, Vildeis, Ydersius, Zaebos
Replacement Power: The following granted power replaces the leadership power of the Nobility domain.
 Sacrificial Bond (Su): At 8th level, when an ally within 30 feet takes damage from an attack, you can, as an immediate action, transfer this damage to yourself. This power also transfers any effects that accompany the damage. The damage done to you cannot be reduced in any way. You can use this ability once per day at 8th level, plus on additional time per day at 14th level and 20th level.
Replacement Domain Spells: 2nd—shield other, 6th—sacrificial oath.
Variant Domain Powers
Description Source: Haunted Heroes Handbook
A cleric (or any other character capable of selecting a domain) who worships the deity in question can choose to gain the variant domain power upon first gaining the domain in question, but the choice to replace the domain power must be made immediately upon gaining access to that domain and cannot be changed thereafter.
 Naderi
Source Haunted Heroes Handbook pg. 9
Associated Domain(s): Nobility
As worshipers of the goddess of drowning, romantic tragedy, and suicide, Naderi’s faithful are often fraught with encounters of the supernatural variety. Her followers contend more with undead than they do outsiders or magical possession, more as a matter of her portfolio than because of any actual training against such forces. Her divine worshipers use conventional means of defeating haunts or possessing spirits, but have additional power over those tied to means of death in Naderi’s portfolio.
 Romance Beyond Death (Su): You receive Command Undead or Turn Undead as a bonus feat, depending on the type of energy you channel. Increase the DC of the saving throw against these feats’ effects by 2 as long as the spirits involved were slain by drowning or killed themselves. If the circumstances of the affected undead’s creation was linked to romance, increase the save DC by 4 instead.
 This replaces the leadership domain power of the Nobility domain.
 Site Owner: Blake DavisEmail Spam Checker: MX Guarddog
