id="main">
 Alchemist | Antipaladin | Arcanist | Barbarian | Barbarian (Unchained) | Bard | Bloodrager | Brawler | Cavalier | Cleric | Druid | Fighter | Gunslinger | Hunter | Inquisitor | Investigator | Kineticist | Magus | Medium | Mesmerist | Monk | Monk (Unchained) | Ninja | Occultist | Oracle | Paladin | Psychic | Ranger | Rogue | Rogue (Unchained) | Samurai | Shaman | Shifter | Skald | Slayer | Sorcerer | Spiritualist | Summoner | Summoner (Unchained) | Swashbuckler | Vigilante | Warpriest | Witch | WizardCompanion | Drake | Eidolon | Eidolon (Unchained) | Familiar | PhantomAdept | Aristocrat | Commoner | Expert | Warrior
 Cleric Class Details | Domains | Variant Channeling | Archetypes
 Repose
Source PRPG Core Rulebook pg. 46
Deities: Acavna, Alazhra, Anubis, Ashava, Atropos, Barzahk, Ceyannan, Chamiaholom, Chavazvug, Corosbel, Dalenydra, Dammar, Doloras, Fharaas, Fumeiyoshi, Ghenshau, Imot, Lorcan, Magrim, Mother Vulture, Mrtyu, Naderi, Narakaas, Osiris, Ozranvial, Pharasma, Phlegyas, Rhan-Tegoth, Saloc, Selket, Shizuru, Teshallas, The Lost Prince, The Pale Horse, Tsukiyo, Uskyeria, Vale, Vavaalrav, Vonymos, Yhidothrus
Granted Powers: You see death not as something to be feared, but as a final rest and reward for a life well spent. The taint of undeath is a mockery of what you hold dear.
Gentle Rest (Sp): Your touch can fill a creature with lethargy, causing a living creature to become staggered for 1 round as a melee touch attack. If you touch a staggered living creature, that creature falls asleep for 1 round instead. Undead creatures touched are staggered for a number of rounds equal to your Wisdom modifier. You can use this ability a number of times per day equal to 3 + your Wisdom modifier.
Ward Against Death (Su): At 8th level, you can emit a 30-foot aura that wards against death for a number of rounds per day equal to your cleric level. Living creatures in this area are immune to all death effects, energy drain, and effects that cause negative levels. This ward does not remove negative levels that a creature has already gained, but the negative levels have no effect while the creature is inside the warded area. These rounds do not need to be consecutive.
Domain Spells: 1st—deathwatch, 2nd—gentle repose, 3rd—speak with dead, 4th—death ward, 5th—slay living, 6th—undeath to death, 7th—destruction, 8th—waves of exhaustion, 9th—wail of the banshee.
 Ancestors Subdomain
Source Advanced Player's Guide pg. 1
Associated Domain(s): Repose
Associated Deities: Acavna, Anubis, Ashava, Bergelmir, Fharaas, Ghenshau, Magrim, Myr, Osiris, Pharasma, Ragadahn, Rhan-Tegoth, Selket, Shizuru, The Lost Prince, Tsukiyo, Yhidothrus
Replacement Power: The following granted power replaces the ward against death power of the Repose domain. 
Speak With Dead (Su): At 8th level, as a standard action, you can ask one question of a dead creature as if using speak with dead. The dead creature you are questioning does not gain a Will saving throw if your alignments are different. You can use this ability a number of times per day equal to your cleric level.
Replacement Domain Spells: 4th—rest eternal, 6th—geas/quest.
 Psychopomp (Repose) Subdomain
Source Champions of Balance pg. 17
Associated Domain(s): Repose
Associated Deities: Pharasma
Replacement Power: The following granted power replaces the death’s embrace ability of the Death domain or the ward against death ability of the Repose domain. Psychopomps are a race of neutral outsiders (Pathfinder RPG Bestiary 4 217).
 Spirit Touch (Su): At 6th level, as a swift action, you can give your natural weapons or any weapons you wield the ghost touch weapon special ability. You can use this power a number of rounds per day equal to your cleric level. These rounds need not be consecutive.
Replacement Domain Spells: 3rd—chain of perditionUC, 6th—planar ally (psychopomps only), 8th—trap the soul.
 Souls Subdomain
Source Advanced Player's Guide pg. 1
Associated Domain(s): Repose
Associated Deities: Alazhra, Anubis, Cagnazzo, Chamiaholom, Chavazvug, Corosbel, Doloras, Fharaas, Fumeiyoshi, Lorcan, Magrim, Naderi, Osiris, Ozranvial, Pharasma, Selket, Tsukiyo
Replacement Power: The following granted power replaces the gentle rest power of the Repose domain.
 Touch the Spirit World (Su): With a touch, you can empower a weapon to affect incorporeal creatures. The weapon touched deals half damage to incorporeal creatures, or full damage if it is a magic weapon. This benefit lasts for a number of rounds equal to your cleric level. You can use this ability a number of times per day equal to 3 + your Wisdom modifier.
Replacement Domain Spells: 3rd—animate dead, 6th—antilife shield, 9th—trap the soul.
Pharasma-Friendly Souls Subdomain (Source: Paizo Blog, PFS-Legal) 3rd-level domain spell: Replace animate dead with speak with dead.
Variant Domain Powers
Description Source: Haunted Heroes Handbook
A cleric (or any other character capable of selecting a domain) who worships the deity in question can choose to gain the variant domain power upon first gaining the domain in question, but the choice to replace the domain power must be made immediately upon gaining access to that domain and cannot be changed thereafter.
 Pharasma
Source Haunted Heroes Handbook pg. 9
Associated Domain(s): Repose
The Lady of Graves seeks the destruction of undead, be they corporeal or manifested spirits. Inquisitors of Pharasma scour the world for signs of the undead, destroying such abominations on sight by means both traditional and esoteric in nature. As a result, most people come first to the church of Pharasma when seeking assistance against foul spirits. One unusual facet of Pharasma’s faithful is their reluctance to excise non-undead spirits, such as demons or devils. Only the most altruistic of Pharasmin priests offer their services against possessing outsiders, as most faithful see battling such foes as being beyond their true calling.
 Exorcism of Undeath (Sp): Once per day as a full-round action, you can try to end any possession spells or effects, or effects that directly exercise mental control over a creature, as long as the effect was caused by an undead creature. You must touch the affected creature (this requires a melee touch attack if the target is neither willing nor helpless) and use a vial of holy water as a material component that is consumed as part of using this ability. The target must immediately attempt a new Will save against the original save DC of the controlling effect. If the save is successful, the possession effect immediately ends, as if the target had succeeded at its original saving throw. If the possessing force is a ghost or similar undead, it manifests adjacent to the target and is staggered for 1 round.
 This replaces the ward against death domain power of the Repose domain.
 Site Owner: Blake DavisEmail Spam Checker: MX Guarddog
