id="main">
 Deities by Alignment | 
 Deities by Pantheon
 Sarenrae
The Dawnflower
Source Inner Sea Gods pg. 132
Pathfinder Wiki SarenraeDetails
Alignment NG
Pantheon Core Deities
Other Pantheons Halfling Deities, Sandpoint Pantheon
Areas of Concern Healing, honesty, redemption, the sun
Domains Fire, Glory, Good, Healing, Sun
Subdomains Agathion, Day, Heroism, Light, Medicine*, Redemption, Restoration, Resurrection, Revelation, Thirst*
* Requires the Acolyte of Apocrypha trait.
Favored Weapon Scimitar
Symbol Angelic ankh
Sacred Animal(s) Dove
Sacred Color(s) Blue, gold
Obedience
The Dawnflower values the redemptive powers of compassion and patience, and extends them to all who might be capable of good. Offer to heal a stranger of his wounds, either by using the powers granted to you by Sarenrae or with a potion, scroll, or other item you possess. Tell the stranger it is by the will of Sarenrae that you share your healing gifts. You may also use your Heal skill to perform this act of healing service. If you can’t find a stranger who will accept your offer, stand beneath the open sky during the daylight hours. Blindfold yourself with a red-and-gold scarf and try to locate the sun in the sky through the layers of fabric. Gain a +2 sacred bonus on Perception checks.Divine Gift
Source Planar Adventures pg. 80
Nethys Note: See here for details on how to gain a Divine Gift
As the sun rises over the recipient’s home world, he can perform a 10-minute prayer (this may be part of his daily ritual to prepare spells) to invoke the Dawnflower. For the next 24 hours, all healing effects the character generates heal the maximum amount of damage possible. In addition, during this time he can cast breath of life and heal as spell-like abilities 3 times each (CL 20th).On Golarion
Centers of Worship Absalom, Katapesh, Osirion, Qadira, Taldor, Thuvia
Nationality KeleshiteBoons - Deific Obedience
 Evangelist
Source Inner Sea Gods pg. 132
1: Healing Spirit (Sp) cure light wounds 3/day, aid 2/day, or remove curse 1/day
2: Fiery Spirit (Su) You have spent so much time in the sun, reveling in Sarenrae’s power and meditating on her glory, that its fiery rays have soaked into your very soul. You gain fire resistance 10.
3: Holy Brand of the Sun (Su) Your devotion to the Dawnflower allows you to wrap your weapon in her cleansing flames to better bring justice to her foes. For a number of rounds per day equal to 1 + 1 for every 4 Hit Dice you possess (maximum 6 rounds), you can cause flames to wreathe your weapon. Any weapon you hold while this ability is active becomes a +1 flaming burst weapon. (You can use this ability on a ranged weapon, but can’t apply it directly to a piece of ammunition.) If you drop the weapon or give it away, the flame effect on that weapon immediately ends. If the weapon you hold has an enhancement bonus greater than +1, use the higher bonus. Activating or deactivating this ability is a free action, and the rounds in which you use the ability don’t need to be consecutive. Exalted
Source Inner Sea Gods pg. 132
1: Brightness (Sp) dancing lanternAPG 3/day, continual flame 2/day, or daylight 1/day
2: Healing Sunburst (Su) You can transmute the sun’s burning rays into brilliant, healing fire. You can add your exalted levels to any cleric levels you have to calculate the power of your channel energy ability. In addition, you can spend three of your daily uses of your channel energy ability to channel an especially powerful burst of healing that manifests as a bright burst of sunlight around you. Anyone healed by your channeled energy sunburst who is currently suffering from poison or a nonmagical disease can immediately attempt a new saving throw with a +2 sacred bonus to end the poison or disease effect.
3: Angelic Ally (Sp) Once per day as a standard action, you can summon a movanic deva (Pathfinder RPG Bestiary 2 28) to aid you. You gain telepathy with the movanic deva to a range of 100 feet. The deva follows your commands perfectly for 1 minute for every Hit Die you possess before vanishing back to its home. The deva doesn’t follow commands that would cause it to violate its alignment by committing evil acts, and it could even attack you if the command is particularly egregious. Sentinel
Source Inner Sea Gods pg. 132
1: Firebrand (Sp) produce flame 3/day, fire breathAPG 2/day, or fireball 1/day
2: Channel Efficiency (Su) You are a talented healer, and have honed your ability so that you can preserve your resources while you provide aid to the wounded. You can channel positive energy by consuming a single use of your lay on hands ability instead of two uses. If you don’t have the lay on hands class feature (or if you have lay on hands but can’t use it to channel positive energy), you instead gain a +4 sacred bonus on Heal checks.
3: Sunburst Strike (Sp) Once per day, you can channel the effects of sunburst through your weapon. You must declare your use of this ability before you roll your attack. On a hit, the target is affected as if you had cast sunburst, as well as taking normal weapon damage. The sunburst effect you generate affects only the target you have struck, not an area of effect as it would normally. If you miss with your attack, the sunburst ability is wasted.Paladin Code
The paladins of the Dawnflower are fierce warriors, like their goddess. They provide hope to the weak and support to the righteous. Their tenets include the following adages. I will protect my allies with my life. They are my light and my strength, as I am their light and their strength. We rise together.
I will seek out and destroy the spawn of the Rough Beast. If I cannot defeat them, I will give my life trying. If my life would be wasted in the attempt, I will find allies. If any fall because of my inaction, their deaths lie upon my soul, and I will atone for each.
I am fair to others. I expect nothing for myself but that which I need to survive.
The best battle is a battle I win. If I die, I can no longer fight. I will fight fairly when the fight is fair, and I will strike quickly and without mercy when it is not.
I will redeem the ignorant with my words and my actions. If they will not turn toward the light, I will redeem them by the sword.
I will not abide evil, and will combat it with steel when words are not enough. I do not flinch from my faith, and do not fear embarrassment. My soul cannot be bought for all the stars in the sky.
I will show the less fortunate the light of the Dawnflower. I will live my life as her mortal blade, shining with the light of truth.
Each day is another step toward perfection. I will not turn back into the dark.
Divine Fighting Technique
 Sarenrae's Mercy
Source Divine Anthology pg. 30
Although the Dawnflower is the goddess of healing and redemption, she is not a goddess of peace, and her followers are taught that combat may be the only way to ensure the safety of those who look to the faith for protection. In such situations, the faithful of Sarenrae are expected to end combat swiftly and efficiently, to avoid drawing out the pain and agony of battle. When one can end a battle without resorting to killing, the opportunity for redemption of the defeated foe still remains. The pages of Dawnflower’s Mercies teach methods by which those who serve Sarenrae as soldiers can vanquish enemies in combat without killing them, and encourage those who follow the teachings held within to offer those they take prisoner the chance to be welcomed into Sarenrae’s arms.
Initial Benefit: You take no penalty on attack rolls for using a scimitar to deal nonlethal damage. If your attack with the scimitar would normally deal additional damage (such as via sneak attack, the flaming weapon special ability, or the like), this additional damage can be nonlethal damage. You can also alter spells with the fire, good, or light descriptor and inflict spells so that the damage they deal is nonlethal damage instead. You can choose to apply this effect as the spell is cast.
Advanced Prerequisites: Great Fortitude, Weapon Focus (scimitar), Heal 10 ranks.
Advanced Benefit: Once per round as you strike a foe with a weapon and deal nonlethal damage with that attack, you regain 1d6 hit points as the warmth of Sarenrae’s approval and the conviction that you are doing the right thing to minimize suffering infuses your body and soul. If the attack that dealt nonlethal damage was from a scimitar, you instead regain 2d6 hit points. You can gain the benefit of this healing only once per round, regardless of how many successful attacks you make with the weapon.For Followers of Sarenrae
Archetypes
Angelfire Apostle (Cleric), Dawnflower Dervish (Bard), Dervish Dancer (Bard), Merciful Healer (Cleric), Undead Scourge (Paladin)Feats
Bestow Hope, Dawn's Blessing, Dervish Dance, Flame Blade Dervish, Glorious Blaze, Glorious Heat, Sacred Pyromania, Sun StrikerMagic Items - Altars
Altar of Sarenrae, Altar of the DawnflowerMagic Items - Armor
Dawnflower Chain VestMagic Items - Rings
Glorious Flame RingMagic Items - Weapons
DawnfireMagic Items - Wondrous Items
Dawnflower Lantern, Dawnflower Sash, Dervish Sikke, Saliharion, Scabbard of the Lost Kiss, Sunlord's FeatherMonsters
Sunlord Thalachos (Herald), YhohmPrestige Classes
Dawnflower Anchorite, Dawnflower DissidentSpells
Daybreak Arrow, Shield of the Dawnflower, Shield of the Dawnflower, Greater, Sign of the Dawnflower, Sun Metal, Unwelcome HaloTraits
Ambassador, Blade of Mercy, Cleansing Light, Cleansing the Twisted, Dawn Renewal, Envoy of Healing, Flame of the Dawnflower, Illuminator, Light-Bringer, Strength of the Sun, Under SiegeUnique Spell Rules
 Source Inner Sea Gods pg. 139
Cleric/Warpriest
Sunbeam can be prepared as a 7th-level spell
Sunburst can be prepared as a 8th-level spell
Flame Blade can be prepared as a 3rd-level spell
Inquisitor
Sunbeam can be prepared as a 5th-level spell
Sunburst can be prepared as a 6th-level spell
Sun Metal can be prepared as a 1st-level spell
Flame Blade can be prepared as a 3rd-level spell
Paladin
Sunbeam can be prepared as a 4th-level spell
Flame Blade can be prepared as a 2nd-level spell
Ranger
Sunbeam can be prepared as a 4th-level spell
Daylight can be prepared as a 3rd-level spell
Flame Blade can be prepared as a 2nd-level spell
Unique Summon Rules
Source Pathfinder #20: House of the Beast pg. 62
Summon Monster VI: Janni - NG
Summon Monster VII: Djinni - NG
Summon Monster VIII: Efreeti - LG (redeemed) [does not have the wish spell-like ability]
Summon Nature's Ally VII: Djinni - NG
Summon Nature's Ally VIII: Efreeti - LG (redeemed) [does not have the wish spell-like ability]
 Site Owner: Blake DavisEmail Spam Checker: MX Guarddog
